# GettingAndCleaningData-CourseProject
This ReadMe contains information on the Course Project dataset, how it was processed, and a description of the final submitted product.
The following files are delivered with this package:
README.txt 
codebook.md
run_analysis.R
rawUCI_Data_.zip
ave_of_mean_stdev_by_sub_act.txt

================================
Description of files:
README.txt - This file.
codebook.md - Codebook for this project, containing description of project and of data variables.
run_analysis.R - R script which processes input data files and generates output file, as specified by the assignment
rawUCI_Data_.zip - zip file of raw input data downloaded from the URL https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 
ave_of_mean_stdev_by_sub_act.txt - output file generated by the R script run_analysis.R

================================
Instruction:
Copy run_analysis.R into the working directory
Go to R command prompt and execute the following:

>download.file("https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip",destfile="rawUCI_Data_.zip",method="curl",extra="-k")

>unzip("rawUCI_Data.zip")

>source("run_analysis.R")

>run_analysis()

Output dataset is written to file ave_of_mean_stdev_by_sub_act.txt in working directory

================================
Description of run_analysis.R processing:
PROCESSING STEPS OF run_analysis.R
    1. Download the raw file from the website
    2. Unzip the file into windows directories
       The data files of interest are these unzipped files:
          UCI HAR Dataset/activity_labels.txt              ##activities
          Features.txt                                     ##column labels
          ./train/subject_train.txt                        ##subject ID
          ./train/X_train.txt                              ##train data
          ./train/Y_train.txt                              ##activity for train data 
          ./test/subject_text.txt                          ##subject ID
          ./text/X_test.txt                                ##test data
          ./text/Y_test.txt                                ##activity for test data

    3. Create data tables from the downloaded data files from test and training subjects (X_test and X_train)
    4. Combine the test data with the training data 
    5. Create data tables from  activity files for test and training (Y_test and Y_train)
    6. Combine the activity test data with the training data
    7. Create data tables from subject ID files for test and training (subject_test and subject_train)
    8. Combine the subject ID test data with the training data
    9. Translate the activity integer values in Y_train.test to descriptive values
       Execute the function convert to do the translation
    10. Extract the column names for the data from the features file 
    11. Identify indices of columns that are means or standard deviations
    12. Create dataset of column data that is mean or std dev and set the column names
    13. Add columns for subject ID and activity to create data set for mean,std by subject Id and activity
    14. Set column names for the Subject ID, Activity, and the mean/std data columns
    15. Create the data set of averages of the mean and std dev data by subject and activity
    16. Execute Function ave_mean_std will calculate average of each data column for each subject ID then calculate average for each activity
    17. Call the function ave_mean_std to create the dataset for averages of mean and stdev of the HCI data
    18. Write data for extracted mean and stdev measurements to file, call it "mean_stdev_data.txt" 
    19. Write data for the average of the extracted mean and stev data to file, call it "ave_of_mean_stdev_data.txt"
